README.en.md, before:

# node-ipip [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ChiChou/node-ipip.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ChiChou/node-ipip) [![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/ChiChou/node-ipip.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/ChiChou/node-ipip) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ipip.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/ipip)

[中文文档](README.md)

A Node.js module to query geolocation information for an IP or domain, based on database by [ipip.net](http://ipip.net).

## Getting Started

Install the module:

    npm install ipip

[Database](http://s.qdcdn.com/17mon/17monipdb.zip) is provided by ipip.net. The free version will be downloaded automatically.

    var ipip = require('ipip');
    var ip = new ipip.IPIP();

    // lookup an ip
    console.log(ip.ip('202.195.161.30', 'dict'));

If you are a paid user, you can assign an alternative database file path.

    var ipip = require('ipip');
    var ip = new ipip.IPIP('/path/to/your/datafile');

## Documentation

### Query

query(ip [, format])

**ip**

IP address that you want to query. e.g. `8.8.8.8`

**format** 

Format of the information, shoule be `array` or `dict`. 

By default it will use the free version.

When set to `dict` you'll get an object that consists of four keys: `country`, `province`, `city`, `organization`. e.g.:

    {
      country: '中国',
      province: '江苏',
      city: '镇江',
      organization: '江苏大学' 
    }

Otherwise, it returns an array as following format: `['country', 'province', 'city', 'organization']`.

For paid users (data file should have the "datx" extension), there are more fields: `['isp', 'latitude', 'longitude', 'timezone', 'timezone2', 'governcode']`

## Pro Tip

Loading the database to memory uses sync IO, which blocks.

## Contributing

In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Use make to run unit test.

## License

(C) Copyright 2015 ChiChou. Licensed under the MIT license.

Commit message:

add document for command line util

README.en.md, after:

# node-ipip [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ChiChou/node-ipip.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ChiChou/node-ipip) [![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/ChiChou/node-ipip.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/ChiChou/node-ipip) [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ipip.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/ipip)

[中文文档](README.md)

A Node.js module to query geolocation information for an IP or domain, based on database by [ipip.net](http://ipip.net).

## Getting Started

Install the module:

    npm install ipip

[Database](http://s.qdcdn.com/17mon/17monipdb.zip) is provided by ipip.net.

You can download the `17monip.dat` and manually put it the library directory, or simply use `npm run installdb` to download it.

    var ipip = require('ipip');
    var ip = new ipip.IPIP();

    // lookup an ip
    console.log(ip.ip('202.195.161.30', 'dict'));

If you are a paid user, you can assign an alternative database file path.

    var ipip = require('ipip');
    var ip = new ipip.IPIP('/path/to/your/17monip.datx');

## Documentation

### Query

query(ip [, format])

**ip**

IP address that you want to query. e.g. `8.8.8.8`

**format** 

Format of the information, shoule be `array` or `dict`. 

By default it will use the free version.

When set to `dict` you'll get an object that consists of four keys: `country`, `province`, `city`, `organization`. e.g.:

    {
      country: '中国',
      province: '江苏',
      city: '镇江',
      organization: '江苏大学' 
    }

Otherwise, it returns an array as following format: `['country', 'province', 'city', 'organization']`.

For paid users (data file should have the "datx" extension), there are more fields: `['isp', 'latitude', 'longitude', 'timezone', 'timezone2', 'governcode']`

## Command line util

If installed globally, you can use `ipip` command in your shell to query IP information.

    ➜  ~ ipip 8.8.8.8 202.195.161.30
    Information for 8.8.8.8:
    country: GOOGLE
    province: GOOGLE
    city: N/A
    organization: N/A
    
    Information for 202.195.161.30:
    country: 中国
    province: 江苏
    city: 镇江
    organization: 江苏大学

## Contributing

In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Use make to run unit test.

## License

(C) Copyright 2015 ChiChou. Licensed under the MIT license.
